url:      https://x.com/stephanlivera/status/2085616362899251420
author:   Stephan Livera
handle:   @stephanlivera
posted:   2026-08-07T06:37:44.000Z (from the page's <time> element)
captured: 20260807T131540Z via the capture browser (authenticated,
          read-only. Element-only screenshot; no session chrome.
media:    0 attached image(s)

--- post text (verbatim) ---

Bitcoin self custody is challenging to educate about because of so many variables:
- Are you securing a small amount or a large amount?
- How privacy conscious are you? 
- How much complexity are you willing to deal with? 
- How much self sovereignty do you want vs ease of use and recovery? 
- What's the plan around inheritance and passing it on? 
- Do you need other related services (e.g. loans) or are you purely HODLing? 

All of these can change what is right for you. 

I think going forward we will see more of a push towards removing single points of failure but in an easy way, and for most normal people, I think this will look closer to what say, 
@Bitkey
 or 
@CasaHODL
 are doing. 

People who really want to get more hardcore about sovereignty and privacy, those are the ones who may still go down the path of DIY dice rolling, multi vendor multi sig with their own private electrum server. But this is admittedly a much smaller group of people. 

When multi sig is executed correctly, it gives you fault tolerance. You can make a mistake or one component in your setup can fail without you losing the coins. Because at that point, you go and rotate just that piece out of the setup, and carry on as you were. e.g. if 1 key in your 3 of 5 keys is found to be bad, OK go rotate that out, and you still have your coins safe and sound. 

The usual answer historically has been that multi sig is too complex, with too many footguns, but it is getting much better over time. There are more providers and apps that are providing easy paths to a secure multi sig setup. 

Self custody isn't dead, you can have peace of mind, but it matters how you set it up.
