url:      https://x.com/csuwildcat/status/2085372469527859442
author:   Daniel Ƀrrr
handle:   @csuwildcat
posted:   2026-08-06T14:28:35.000Z (from the page's <time> element)
captured: 20260807T131832Z via the capture browser (authenticated,
          read-only. Element-only screenshot; no session chrome.
media:    1 attached image(s)
media-1: https://pbs.twimg.com/media/HPC7NSsXgAA9kxT?format=jpg&name=small (680 x 371 pixels)

--- post text (verbatim) ---

 The Coldcard disaster is a case study in why key rolling   is a critical feature of self-sovereign cryptographic protocols. When people rescue funds from a Coldcard, what they're really doing is rolling (swapping) keys while maintaining ownership  over the thing of value (their money ) - ownership isn't forever bound to the bad key, which is great!

The same concern applies to other protocols, but many are missing this critical functionality - for example: in identity systems, your identity/reputation is the thing of value. Some problematic protocols, like Nostr, use a public key (npub) as the identifier that you build your identity on top of. The problem with Nostr is if you ever suspect there's been underlying private key exposure, you can't roll off of the private key while retaining your identifier/identity. If you used poor entropy to generate your Nostr keys, or ever believe your keys are at risk, you cannot do what Coldcard users did by rolling keys to retain your identity. Instead you're instantly, permanently screwed with no recourse, because Nostr lacks one of the most foundational aspects of a secure identity system.

As more and more of life shifts to digital protocols, people will use their identities and reputations for important things. For some people, their identity/reputation has a high monetary value (e.g. celebrities), and for those who don't have much money at all, sometimes their identity is worth more to them than anything else.

We deserve a decentralized, self-sovereign identity and reputation layer that is secure, capable, and up to the task. If this Coldcard nightmare has taught us anything, it's that Bitcoiners should demand better of the devices, protocols, and systems they use.

For more info on the identity and personal data front, stay tuned, I'm working with 
@itsLIRAN
 on a renewed effort to bring an evolved set of open source solutions to the table.
