Skip to content
English
Show submenu for translations
More support
Take control of your digital future.
Open main navigation
Close main navigation
Take control of your digital future.
English
Show submenu for translations
More support
Search the Help Center
There are no suggestions because the search field is empty.
Help Center
Hardware devices
Coldcard
March 4, 2026
Coldcard troubleshooting
Coldcard Mk 3+ hardware devices are compatible with Casa multisig vaults.
Whether you are adding the Coldcard, doing a health check, or sending funds from your Casa vault, it has the unique benefit of offering offline-signing via PSBTs to add a signature to your vault.
One thing to keep in mind when using your Coldcard is to remember to check for the most recent firmware updates here.
With Coldcard, the instructions for performing a health check and signing a transaction do differ slightly. See the below articles for the instructions for each function:
Performing a Health Check with Coldcard
Signing a Transaction With Coldcard
Some common Coldcard errors are:
Failure. My XFP not involved
Change fraud
Couldn't find signature
Failure Invaid PSBT multisig.py 715
Failure Invalid PSBT multisig.py 716
Failure XPUBs in PSBT do not match any known wallet
Error: file must be .psbt
"Sorry, there was a problem completing your Health Check. Problem Detail: Error. No authorization token was found"
Failure. My XFP not involved
Solution: Double-check that the Coldcard is the device used for that vault. If you are performing a key rotation make sure that you are not using the device you marked for replacement to try to sign.
Change fraud
There is an issue with the Coldcard firmware where it looks for the OP_CHECKMULTISIG opcode in the redeem script, but can't find it because it isn't taking into account that we use nested segwit (P2SH-P2WSH). It's assuming all addresses are P2SH or P2WSH.
You can get around this by going to Settings > Multisig Wallets > Skip Checks, and turning that setting on.
Couldn't find signature
Solution: Make sure to upload the correct file to confirm this request. It will prompt you with the file name to look for in the error message.
Failure Invaid PSBT multisig.py 715
This is shown when you are trying to sign a BTC transaction while in testnet mode or trying to sign a testnet transaction while in BTC mode. Ensure your mode matches your transaction type.
Advanced > Danger Zone > Testnet or BTC
Failure Invalid PSBT multisig.py 716
This is shown when trying to sign a testnet transaction, but the right setting has not been configured. In order to sign for testnet you must do the following:
In Coldcard settings, select: Advanced > Danger Zone > Have ‘Testnet: BTC’ checked, not ‘Bitcoin’
Failure XPUBs in PSBT do not match any known wallet
This is shown if "Trust PSBT" is not enabled.
In Coldcard settings, select Multisig Wallets > Trust PSBT and select "Trust PSBT."
If you've tried the above steps and are still having issues, please reach out to our support team, and we're happy to assist.
Error: file must be .psbt
You are likely on Windows and have Sparrow installed. You must either uninstall Sparrow temporarily or use a Mac.
Sorry, there was a problem completing your Health Check. Problem Detail: Error. No authorization token was found
Expired link. Try the health check or the transaction again.
Getting Started
Getting Started with 3 key vault
Getting Started with 5 key vault
Using the Casa app
Find what you need
Casa basics
Key Management
Depositing funds
Sending funds
Switching to a new phone
Advanced Options with the 3-key vault
Open-Source Integrations
Premium features
Emergency Lockdown
Ethereum Relay & Fees
Security Features
Sovereign Recovery
Memberships, Accounts, and Billing
Membership levels
Membership payments
Other account questions
Inheritance
Inheritance Overview
Vault Owners
Recipient
Hardware devices
General information
Trezor
Ledger
YubiKey
Coldcard
Passport by Foundation
Keystone
Educational Resources
Threats and Scams
Account Security
Physical Security and Storage
Privacy
Bitcoin FAQ
Ethereum FAQ
Retirement accounts
Ordinals and inscriptions
Node Recovery
Partnerships
Financial Tools
Privacy Tools
Contact Support
Organizations
Business
Enterprise
Financial Services
Getting started with Buy/Sell
Funding your account
Buying, selling & transferring crypto
Casa Financial OTC Desk
Troubleshooting
Take control of your digital wealth.
Casa Help Center Footer
↓ Footer Preview ↓
Still need help?
Our support team is available to assist with your Casa account.
Contact Support →
Take control of your digital wealth. Self-custody Bitcoin security for individuals and institutions.
Help Topics
Getting Started
Using Casa App
Hardware Devices
Inheritance
Educational Resources
Account
Memberships & Billing
Organizations
Partnerships
Financial Services
Casa
casa.io ↗
Blog
Submit a Ticket
Copyright © 2026 Casa, Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service