url:      https://x.com/francispouliot_/status/2085827031942488511
author:   FRANCIS  BULLBITCOIN.COM
handle:   @francispouliot_
posted:   2026-08-07T20:34:51.000Z (from the page's <time> element)
captured: 20260813T181237Z via the capture browser (authenticated,
          read-only. Element-only screenshot; no session chrome.
expanded: this post was served truncated; its show-more control was
          expanded before reading, so the text below is the whole post
media:    0 attached image(s)

--- post text (verbatim) ---

The idea that the completely organic movement by volunteers from around the world to identify, responsabily disclose and patch security vulnerabilities as a response to the obviously targeting of Bitcoin open-source projects... is some kind of psyops to distract people away from "other things" is completely fucking retarded.

I understand a lot of people are on edge and that skepticism is healthy, but in this case it's totally misplaced. 

Ignore those that are trying paint "Bitcoin Red Team" as some sort of psyops. It's not. I have personally received and delivered reports. I have been texting collaborators from many projects non-stop all week. Red Team is both an actual group of people but more importantly it's a mindset shift. I am not part of a "Red Team" official group. We are BULL have our own Red Team and of course we are focused first and foremost on our own stack but being an open-source project with many many different layers are are helping different participants in the ecosystem either because we use their technology, we know them personally or our work is relevant to theirs. 

It will likely get worse before it gets better. But it will get better. We have an advantage. Bitcoin open-source project were the low hanging fruit because exploits are easier if you can read the code and the payoff is immediate and liquid. 

The Bitcoin ecosystem is getting a painful but major upgrade. The community response has been amazing and I couldn't be more proud.
