post: 1veo7gt
author: Spy008
created_utc: 1785787221
title: The ColdTruth
body:
If you have any CoinKite products do yourself a favor and buy a new hardware wallet and move your coins off of it. 

It doesn’t matter if you generated the keys yourself tossing the dice off of Mt.Everest in the moonlight. Here’s why you are now vulnerable:

Scenario 1 - Coinkite goes out of business. Your ColdTrap product is perfectly secure at the moment, but 1 day, 1 week, 1 year later another vulnerability is found by say an ethical hacker or a new technology makes a vulnerability possible. Normally minor exploits especially ones found internally, through bug bounties or through research partners can be patched via firmware updates, but now that update channel and process is gone.

Scenario 2 - Coinkite somehow survives this and continues operations. Revenue will still likely fall significantly, meaning less headcount, less security partnerships, less Q&A, etc. all this leaves you more vulnerable.

Choose your next wallet wisely, DYOR isnt listening to influencers or even the people on this sub. 

There were a ton of people pushing ColdCard even when it first came out - I argued with them back then that it doesn’t matter if its open source or airgapped what matters is how long its been on the market/how many qualified people are looking at the code/ how high of a target it is for hackers… hardware wallets arent like new phone models, the oldest ones with a long history of safety are typically better than just about anything new.

Open source is great if you have A LOT of qualified people looking at it. With open source you ONLY have security when you’re the highest value target with the highest bug bounty—- there is a reason why researchers and competitors break down Trezor’s daily and not Jades, Bitboxs, or whatever people are pushing now in days.

Also IMO some of the mods here should issue an apology for actively pushing ColdCard (they know who they are)

comment: p1kmw14
parent: t3_1veo7gt
author: slvbtc
created_utc: 1785810396
edited: false
body:
Its wild some people think its still ok to use a coldcard because the bug was fixed.

Once you find out the CTO of your HW wallet is homer simpson you stop using it completely. Fixing a bug doesnt change the fact the CTO is still homer simpson.

comment: p1kpfm8
parent: t1_p1kmw14
author: Bred_Slippy
created_utc: 1785811261
edited: false
body:
A self-proclaimed "Wizard-level developer" no less. Smh

comment: p1l55z1
parent: t1_p1kmw14
author: didnt_hodl
created_utc: 1785817205
edited: false
body:
homer simpson is way too generous for that guy. waaay too generous

he'd be better off having literally no brain. that's the level of severe zoological retardation we are talking about here


