url:      https://x.com/benhart_freedom/status/2085364758471917905
author:   Ben Hart
handle:   @BenHart_Freedom
posted:   2026-08-06T13:57:57.000Z (from the page's <time> element)
captured: 20260807T132431Z via the capture browser (authenticated,
          read-only. Element-only screenshot; no session chrome.
media:    0 attached image(s)

--- post text (verbatim) ---

FURTHER REFLECTIONS ON THE COLDCARD DISASTER.

I was fully sold on self-custody.  Bought 3 ColdCards -- two MK4s and a Q.  Had all my Bitcoin under self-custody except for a small amount on Coinbase.

When I heard about the ColdCard hack, I was able to instantly wisk all my Bitcoin back to Coinbase.  I feel horrible for those who lost their funds.

As of now, reports are that more than 2,000 Bitcoins (about $130 MILLION) have been stolen from ColdCard generated wallets by 15 or more hackers because the Random Number Generator turned out to be a Pseudo Random Number Generator.  So numbers generated not random at all.

Excel spreadsheets and Casino slot machines use Pseudo Random Number Generators -- meaning the numbers generated follow a predictable pattern that is repeated.  It's just a very big pattern, so looks random to humans.

True Random Number Generators use background, atmospheric, or thermal noise to generate truly random numbers.

ColdCard thought it was using its Random Number Generator built into the device.  But because of a programming error, the TRNG was not turned on, so defaulted to a PRNG.

It's super easy for a basic laptop to crack a PRNG number.

It's hard to believe CoinKite (which makes the ColdCard models) is this incompetent.  Then I find out that ColdCard only has 5 employees.

It's barely a company at all.

We were told by the top Bitcoin influencers that ColdCard was the "gold standard" for self-custody security.

Then it turns out most of these influencers were paid by CoinKite to hype ColdCard.

Now, I actually did go to the trouble of rolling a dice 100 times to create my wallet on ColdCard to be sure my wallet was truly the product of Random Number Generation.  Also applied a pass phrase, randomly generated with dice.  So I'm told my Bitcoin was safe.

Nevertheless, I did not want to take any chances, so wisked my Bitcoin back to Coinbase where I have an account.

But here's the thing.  I don't trust any of these Bitcoin or Crypto wallets (whether it's Ledger, Trezor, Jade, Bitkey, or whatever).  

This time, the flaw was the Random Number Generator.

Next time AI will find another flaw, another backdoor in the firmware.

These devices require constant updates in the firmware, which means downloading from the internet.  

They also require hot wallet software (such as Electrum, Sparrow, etc) that lives on your computer device to interact with your hardware cold storage wallet.

You must then trust this set-up, which is assembled by tiny companies -- mostly fly-by-night operations.

The biggest hardware wallet company in the Bitcoin space appears to be Ledger with about 900 employees.

Okay, that at least is a real company.

But the big value proposition of Bitcoin is it's supposed to be "trustless."

You're not supposed to have to "trust" anyone with your money.   Your are supposed to be a "sovereign individual," "your own bank."

Bitcoin is supposed to be "unconfiscatable" (i.e. lawsuit protection) and "uncensorable" (you can't be debanked).

Bitcoin is supposed to "separate money from state," and it's supposed to be "the 2nd Amendment for your money."

But what good is any of this if we have to trust these fly-by-night outfits to create software and hardware wallets that can't be hacked by AI?

And most people lose their Bitcoin through user error.

The biggest threat to your Bitcoin under self-custody is YOU.

People lose their private keys.  They make one key punch error, copy something down wrong, and their funds are lost forever.

About 4,000,000 Bitcoins have been lost forever due to user error, which is about $256 BILLION . . . lost through self-custody user error.

So 20% of all Bitcoin lost . . . through user error.

I love the idea of Bitcoin.  

No one has hacked Bitcoin's underlying technology.  

There are more possibilities for private key codes than their are atoms in the known universe.  So Bitcoin the asset appears secure.  It's an ingenious asset.

But the fatal flaw is the  tech we must trust to use it.

Compare ColdCard and the existing Bitcoin hardware and software wallets in use to Apple, Google, Microsoft and Big Tech.

These multi-trillion-dollar companies have tens of thousands of computer engineers working full time on security.

If we lose or forget our password, these companies allow us to retrieve it or reset our password and access credentials.  Our funds are not lost forever.

I don't like having to trust these companies.  But we really have no choice.  

So we trust these companies with our passwords and all our info.  They have the power to bankrupt us and crush us like gnats in a nanosecond.

Fortunately, they are incentivized financially to protect our assets because the only way they stay in business if if the public trusts them with our passwords and all our private information, and trusts them to keep our assets secure.

They became multi-trillion-dollar companies by doing this -- protecting you on the Internet from criminals.

I don't like that Big Tech has amassed so much power over us.  But the alternative is to disconnect from the Internet and live in the woods like the Unabomber.

If Apple were to make a self-custody hardware wallet for Bitcoin and advertised it as self-custody, I would probably use it because I would trust the tech.

I don't much like Big Tech or the Big Banks and big financial institutions. I would like to be free of them, and be my own bank.  

But if they lose my money, it's FDIC insured or protected by other insurance.

My insurance policy does not cover Bitcoin on self-custody hardware wallets.

But also, if I were hit by a bus, my wife Wanda and our heirs would have no clue how to access their Bitcoin if its under self-custody.

Yes, I left her instructions in a safe-deposit box.  But could she actually access her Bitcoin if she had to?

Most likely, she would need to get help from an expert. 

She would need to trust someone to help her access her Bitcoin.

And, yes, there are collaborative self-custody solutions, such as offered by Unchained.  But this is also complicated.

There's really no such thing as "trustless."

Most of us trusted ColdCard because we trusted the Bitcoin influencers who told us ColdCard was the "gold standard" for self-custody Bitcoin security.

Then it turned out they were being paid by CoinKite to hype ColdCard -- and didn't know what they were talking about.

So there's no such thing as "trustless."

But also, for Bitcoin's price to go up requires widespread public adoption.  

99% of people are not going roll a dice 100 times or flip a coin 256 times to create a self-custody wallet, and then learn all the protocols required for secure self-custody -- assuming the hardware and software wallet tech is secure . . . 

. . . which turns out to be a false assumption.

I'm not a fan of Coinbase.  It's customer service sucks.

Coinbase has no customer service.  

But at least Wanda can log in and check our Bitcoin balance . . . and access the funds.  

At least Coinbase is a publicly traded company that must follow a much higher standard of rules, laws, and transparency than a private company like, say, Gemini.

Coinbase is at least auditable.

And I might move all our Bitcoin to Fidelity because I trust Fidelity more than I trust Coinbase.

I can get someone on the phone at Fidelity.

Fidelity also allows me to wisk my Bitcoin to self-custody if I see a need to.

Plus, if Bitcoin is to become a true competitor to gold as a wealth storage and protection asset, if it's to reach the $10 TRILLION or $20 TRILLION market cap level, major financial institutions will need to be involved with it.

And they are slowly getting involved with Bitcoin.  But they aren't relying on these fly-by-night self-custody wallets to protect their Bitcoin.

So at age 68, I've decided to abandon the self-custody model.  I'm just not going to risk self-custody.

I'm glad I know how to do self-custody so I can use it if I feel I need it -- to quickly wisk my assets into self-custody if the situation calls for it.

But trusting self-custody day in and day out is asking for trouble.  

I'd rather trust Apple, JP Morgan Chase, Fidelity, and Morgan Stanley to protect my assets than myself and these fly-by-night Bitcoin wallet oufits, some of which are run by criminals, apparently.
