url:      https://x.com/raw_avocado/status/2083946596543168758
author:   Alex Waltz
handle:   @raw_avocado
posted:   2026-08-02T16:02:41.000Z (from the page's <time> element)
captured: 20260803T040518Z via the capture browser (authenticated,
          read-only. Element-only screenshot; no session chrome.
media:    0 attached image(s)

--- post text (verbatim) ---

This CC vulnerability fucked even non-CC users in terms of privacy for the next years.

There now is big number of CC seeds that are very easy to get access to.

Even if funds have been saved or drained froma compromised seed, when you get the seed you have FULL access to that wallet's history.

So even if you saved your funds, you are still linked to the original wallet, so an attacker can still follow your UTXOs

Any government entity or chainanalytics company or bad actor can get this lists with VERY low cost.
(it will become public or sold soon anyway online)

Anyone that interacted with a compromised CC wallet their privacy is fucked.
(depending on specifics, ofc)

So beside loosing people's money, this effectively is THE BIGGEST blow to bitcoin privacy ever.

This allows ANYONE to construct a map of UTXOs and de anonymise coinjoins or any other privacy techniques, and just link multiple UTXOs belonging to 1 user.

When you have the history of a wallet, its allows you to link entities.

Depending on how big and connected this map of UTXOs is it could possibly help de-anonymise and reason about certain UTXOs belonging to an entity.

The blockchain just has UTXOs and there is a certain fog on top of it. 
This exploit has lifted the some of that fog.
The size depends on how many affected seeds there are and how connected they were to others.

Most seeds ofc were cold storage send and forget wallets, so not that connected, but still very bad.

Bitcoin is transparent by design, but we still could get some privacy.
Now even this small privacy is fucked.

This is literally the biggest disaster that ever happen in the bitcoin ecosystem in terms of privacy.

I don't even want to think of how many attacks and new types of attacks this will unleash.

And the most scary part, is that there is nothing to do about it.
