Blog
Careers
Contact
RSS
Email Newsletter
Store
×
Home
Blog
Careers
Contact
RSS
Email Newsletter
Store
← Back to posts
Paper spam attempts
Published Jun 24, 2026
Categories: ckcc
Remember letterhead? Now it’s the Newest Affinity Scam!
About Recent Physical Letters
We have received concerns from a few of our customers regarding a
letter apparently from “Coinkite” asking them to upgrade their firmware for
“Post QUanTUM” reasons.
This is a scam to steal your coins!
Coinkite would never send you a paper letter!
We delete all customer data, especially physical addresses, after 120 days.
Coinkite does not use CRM tools or any external third party tools.
Letters with branding of our wallet competitors have also been reported.
Our support tickets (and emails) also get deleted on a schedule.
We saw this in 2025, but this is a new round of letters in our
brand style as well as our competitors.
We are actively investigating the situation. So far it seems most of
the data is aggregated from multiple sources of leaks from other
crypto providers and data filled-in from other data leaks over the years.
Looks like someone is funding a spray-and-pray campaign over snail mail!
We are so used to email spam it feels weird.
We recommend contacting support with more information so we can
keep investigating. It’s very possible the customs and duties department
of a country had a data leak.
If it’s a large country, then that
would expose all of our customers in that country.
Recently we put together this rather long list of individual
crypto company data breaches.
What Can I Do?
If you use Bitcoin to pay and shipped to a PO Box with an alias,
then you have nothing to worry about! Most governments do not make
that easy, and anon PO Box access is certainly not universal.
If you used a credit card, Stripe is the payment processor. They
have not reported any breaches and we trust them (and the US laws
they operate under) to report any they do have.
If you shipped DHL/Fedex, they will necessarily have your address,
but we don’t know of any reports of breaches from them. We do not
know what internal controls these carriers have, but we do know they
have thousands of customer support representatives with access
to address data.
The reality is we’re probably not the only company that
knows you’re a Bitcoiner. Most people have bought Bitcoin-related
products or services from other vendors over the years and shipped
them to a home address, and any of those vendors and their third-parties
are a possible source.
If you are certain that only Coinkite had a specific address and
you receive this paper letter, please report it to support. We are
hoping these letters are geographically targeted/limited, and that
if we get enough reports, we can track which country or carrier
leaked data.
What Are We Doing About It?
Remember to expect a “Your Data has been Blanked” email from
Coinkite a few months after you interact with the store. If you have
unclaimed giftcards, vouchers, or have an reseller relationship
with us, then this does not happen. We may sometimes send a double
email from time to time.
You can request accelerated data blanking anytime after your
package arrives. Just email support and they can blank
your profile and even remove your email.
We would like to shorten our data retention period, but credit
card fraud makes that difficult.
All emails from our systems continue to be PGP signed.
We have audited our servers and found no reason to suspect any data breach.
If we identify a pattern in the reports, we will announce it.
We are adding another note to our disclaimer that is included in
our transactional emails:
We are actively investigating this so please follow us for more updates:
@Coinkite and @COLDCARDwallet
@COLDCARDwallet
@SATSCARD
@TAPSIGNER
@theBLOCKCLOCK
@arcasafes
Video Tutorials
@Coinkite
Made with by Coinkite
View store
Products
Opendime
Speedplate
Blockclock
Support
Responsible Disclosure
Terms of Use
White Paper
Copyright © 2026 Coinkite Inc. All rights reserved.
support@coinkite.com