Skip to content
COLDCARD Documentation
COLDCARD FAQ
Initializing search
Documentation
COLDCARD Home
Buy Now!
COLDCARD Documentation
Documentation
Documentation
Guides
Guides
Getting Started
Getting Started
Quickstart! Start Here!
Q Quickstart Guide
Guide For Bitcoin Beginners
PINs
Master Seed
Ready To Sign?
Sending and Receiving Bitcoin for Beginners
COLDCARD Ultra Quick Guide
COLDCARD Middle Ground Guide
COLDCARD Paranoid Guide
General
General
Upgrade Firmware
Settings Menu
Address Explorer
Verify Address Ownership
QR Scanner
Encrypted Backups
NFC Tools
Secure Notes & Passwords
Multisig Features
Airgap Multisig
Seed Management
Seed Management
Generate Seed
Generate Seed
Generate Seed: Quick
Generate Seed: Middle Ground
Generate Seed: Paranoid
BIP-39 Passphrase
Temporary Seed
Seed Vault
Seed XOR
Scan Seed
Lock Down Seed
Derive Seed BIP-85
Seed Functions
Advanced
Advanced
Advanced/Tools Menu
Derivation Paths and Accounts
Clone or Migrate a COLDCARD
Migrate from Ledger or Trezor to COLDCARD
Message Signing
BIP-322 Signing
BIP-85 Passwords
Trick PINs
Descriptor Export
Descriptors & Multisig
Verifying Dice Roll Math
Paper Wallets
WIF Store
Export Deterministic Entropy (BIP-85)
MicroSD 2FA
Key Teleport
Spending Policies
Spending Policies
Single Signer Spending Policy (SSSP)
COLDCARD Co-Signing (CCC)
HSM Mode and CKBunker
HSM Mode and CKBunker
User Management
Spending Rules
Local Confirmation Codes
HSM Security Notes
USB Protocol for HSM Mode
CLI Commands for HSM
Developer
Developer
BSMS (BIP-129)
Community Guides
How To Videos
References
References
Specifications
Hardware Features
Menu Tree
Compatible Software Wallets and Tools
MicroSD Card Related
Command Line Tools
Downloads
Recovery Cards Downloads
Version History
Trouble Shooting
Technical Terms Glossary
Advanced Topics
Advanced Topics
COLDCARD FAQ
COLDCARD FAQ
Table of contents
How many seed words does it use?
Can I have multiple wallets in each COLDCARD?
What's new in the Mk5 COLDCARD?
Is my trusted Mk4 obsolete now?
Can I change my PIN?
Which blockchains do you support?
Why does it have a MicroSD slot?
How do I connect to a computer?
Do I need to use MicroSD cards?
Where do I tap my phone for NFC?
What is PSBT?
How do I backup?
Can COLDCARD import an encrypted BIP-39 seed phrase?
Is there a factory reset?
How do I know desktop software is showing a payment address that truly is a deposit into this COLDCARD?
I found a previously-used COLDCARD online, should I buy it?
This random MicroSD card doesn't work!
Do you support Segwit (Segregated Witness) on the COLDCARD?
Is the secure element's crypto used for Bitcoin processing?
What kind of secure element is used?
When does the PIN attempt counter reset?
What happens when I can't remember my PIN?
Where does the entropy (randomness) come from?
Where do I learn all technical details?
Comparing A Few Hardware Wallets
COLDCARD Mk5 vs. Mk4
COLDCARD Q Overview
COLDCARD Home
Buy Now!
Table of contents
How many seed words does it use?
Can I have multiple wallets in each COLDCARD?
What's new in the Mk5 COLDCARD?
Is my trusted Mk4 obsolete now?
Can I change my PIN?
Which blockchains do you support?
Why does it have a MicroSD slot?
How do I connect to a computer?
Do I need to use MicroSD cards?
Where do I tap my phone for NFC?
What is PSBT?
How do I backup?
Can COLDCARD import an encrypted BIP-39 seed phrase?
Is there a factory reset?
How do I know desktop software is showing a payment address that truly is a deposit into this COLDCARD?
I found a previously-used COLDCARD online, should I buy it?
This random MicroSD card doesn't work!
Do you support Segwit (Segregated Witness) on the COLDCARD?
Is the secure element's crypto used for Bitcoin processing?
What kind of secure element is used?
When does the PIN attempt counter reset?
What happens when I can't remember my PIN?
Where does the entropy (randomness) come from?
Where do I learn all technical details?
COLDCARD Security Advisory
A seed-generation defect affected releases beginning with firmware 4.0.1. Fixed firmware is available. Existing affected seeds still require migration.
Check firmware and migration steps
Home
Docs
COLDCARD FAQ
COLDCARD FAQ
How many seed words does it use?#
COLDCARD® generates either 12- or 24-word BIP-39 seeds.
It can also import 12, 18, and 24-word, BIP-39 seeds that other wallets may have created.
Can I have multiple wallets in each COLDCARD?#
There is a single "wallet", derived from the BIP-39 seed words. In
addition, we have an optional "duress" wallet, which is derived
from the wallet's seed words and is not independent. This means
it gets backed-up automatically, and the original seed words also
backup the duress wallet.
By adding a BIP-39 passphrase you can unlock
nearly unlimited additional wallets which derive from the original
24 seed words. The passphrase you use defines the wallet and cannot
be changed. BIP-39 passphrases are not backed up or otherwise tracked,
which gives lots of freedom in terms of plausible deniability.
What's new in the Mk5 COLDCARD?#
We have a complete table of differences here but
the highlights: huge industrial design upgrades, including a new
larger screen protected by Gorilla Glass, better NFC (tap), USB-C
connector at bottom.
Is my trusted Mk4 obsolete now?#
No! The new Mk5 runs exactly the same firmware as the Mk4 and we
will support all future features on both devices and they will
operate the same.
Can I change my PIN?#
Yes, the PIN is independent of the funds being held. It can be changed
at any time as long as you have the original PIN.
BIP-39 passphrases cannot be changed because the text of the passphrase
is part of the private key.
Which blockchains do you support?#
Bitcoin and Bitcoin Testnet are supported. COLDCARD does not support altcoins.
Why does it have a MicroSD slot?#
The COLDCARD can backup the seed into an encrypted file.
New transactions to be signed can be imported from the card.
Public key data (XPUB, payment addresses) can be written onto the card.
Firmware upgrades can be done by copying the new firmware file onto a card.
A skeleton Electrum wallet can be created on the card which allows
Electrum to "pair" with the COLDCARD without it ever connecting to a USB port.
Multisig wallets can be joined using files transferred via cards.
How do I connect to a computer?#
Use the USB port at the top of the COLDCARD. You must provide a standard
micro USB cable suitable for your computer.
COLDCARD does not enable the USB port until a correct PIN code is
entered so it will not appear on your computer until the PIN is entered.
There is no need to use the USB port (except for power) during seed
setup and when using the MicroSD card slot itself. We use the
COLDCARD with USB battery packs routinely, although some battery
packs do not correctly detect the COLDCARD because it uses very
little power. They may power down because it appears that nothing
is connected. Most simple battery packs and wall chargers are fine.
With the Mk4, you may enable "USB Virtual Disk" mode so the COLDCARD
will look like a USB drive to your computer or mobile phone. This
simplifies operation because you can drag-n-drop PSBT files onto
the COLDCARD.
Do I need to use MicroSD cards?#
You don't have to use MicroSD cards with COLDCARD. It works fine
over a USB connection. You can also switch later if your security
needs change. NFC (tap) can also be used on to send and receive
files.
Where do I tap my phone for NFC?#
The NFC antenna is in a different spot on each COLDCARD, so hold your
phone flat against the right area and move them slowly together until
they connect:
Q: the center of the screen — the antenna is behind the display.
Mk5: the top-right corner of the device.
Mk4: the keypad, centered on the 8 key.
It is also very important to know where the NFC antenna is on your phone,
as this varies a lot between models. For a visual guide, see
COLDCARD device-specific NFC sensor locations.
If your phone is not covered by the video, check with its manufacturer for
the exact antenna location on your specific model.
What is PSBT?#
PSBT is an emerging standard for "Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions"
and is described by
BIP-174.
COLDCARD is the first "PSBT Native" hardware wallet. It uses PSBT
internally, and should be able to sign most PSBT files generated
by conforming software. For completed transactions, we can output
either a PSBT (with the new signatures added) or a finalized Bitcoin
transaction, ready to send.
Bitcoin Core has added HWI
which supports uploading unsigned PSBT files, and receiving signed
PSBT files back from the COLDCARD. All the features of the COLDCARD,
including message signing and showing of addresses are supported
in HWI. This is a great way to use your COLDCARD from the CLI over
USB connection.
How do I backup?#
Insert a MicroSD card, and go to Advanced > Backup > Backup System.
You'll be shown a 12-word password to be recorded, and have to pass
a short quiz to prove you did that.
Then the file is saved as an AES-encrypted 7Z file
on the MicroSD card.
We suggest keeping the password and file in different locations.
The backup file is useless without the 12-word passphrase. Each
backup will have a different backup phrase, and it has no relationship
with the wallet seed words.
Backups can also be verified (checked for completeness) from the menu system.
Read more in our docs about backups.
Can COLDCARD import an encrypted BIP-39 seed phrase?#
Yes, COLDCARD supports BIP-39 passphrases.
This unlocks approximately 5.9 × 10197 more wallets based on your seed words.
Is there a factory reset?#
There is no way to do a factory reset on a COLDCARD due to the secure elements. However, you can come close to a factory reset if you know the current Main PIN. To accomplish this you would do the following:
Manually reset any current settings.*
Wipe the file system:* Advanced/Tools > Danger Zone > Wipe LFS
Delete all Trick PINs: Settings > Login Settings > Trick PINs > Delete All
Destroy the seed: Advanced/Tools > Danger Zone > Seed Functions > Destroy Seed
Change the Main PIN to something easy: Settings > Login Settings > Change Main PIN
* Manually changing the settings, and wiping the file system are only necessary on firmware older than Q: 1.2.1Q and Mk4: 5.3.1. Newer firmware does this automatically during the seed destruction step.
How do I know desktop software is showing a payment address that truly is a deposit into this COLDCARD?#
COLDCARD can display the payment address after it has independently
calculated what it should be. Without this, it would be hard to
make a "deposit" into the wallet of the COLDCARD without the
possibility of someone misleading you.
In Electrum, click on the "eye" icon shown near the payment address.
Check the value shown on the COLDCARD screen, compared to the value
Electrum is showing.
This 'show address' feature is typically used online, with the
COLDCARD connected on USB. To achieve a similar result offline,
proceed as follows: choose Address Explorer from the main menu, and follow
the instructions.
You can view ten addresses on the screen at at a time (press 9 to
see more), and also write out a CSV file with the first 250 addresses,
onto the MicroSD card.
I found a previously-used COLDCARD online, should I buy it?#
You should never buy a "used" COLDCARD from eBay or another online
store. A new COLDCARD from the factory would arrive sealed in a
special tamper-evident bag. That's an important security feature
since it's possible to change the firmware on the COLDCARD. It's
impossible to trust what you're receiving from the second-hand vendor.
All legitimate resellers should be providing the COLDCARD unused and
still in it's original tamper-evident bag. As part of the first-use
sequence, you will verify the bag number matches the factory bag number.
This random MicroSD card doesn't work!#
There are so many MicroSD cards out there, it's not possible for us
to test with them all. We have tested with all the cards we can find
locally, and a few ultra-cheap ones from AliExpress. Still there will be
some that won't work. If it's formatted as FAT32 and equal or smaller
than 32GB, it should work.
Please try another brand of card and if that fails, try
one of our high quality true SLC cards, available in our
store.
Do you support Segwit (Segregated Witness) on the COLDCARD?#
Yes. We have comprehensive segwit support,
and strongly recommend it, but do not require it.
We will display Bech32 and P2SH (segwit wrapped) addresses appropriately.
The limiting factor is usually the wallet software generating the
PSBT files for Coldcard to sign, and the BIP-32 key derivation paths involved.
For the Electrum wallet, we generate a PSBT file which will result
in COLDCARD producing a segwit transaction every time (this does
not relate to use of Bech32 or P2SH addresses, just the transaction's
signatures).
Segwit is preferred since the cryptographic signature will cover
exactly the payment details that the user has previewed on the
COLDCARD screen.
In order to (safely) produce a non-segwit transaction, the COLDCARD
must be provided enough data in the PSBT to completely verify the
inputs and since a full copy of the transaction for all UTXO inputs
is needed, the result is a much larger PSBT file. COLDCARD will
refuse to sign a PSBT file where it does not have complete information
on all inputs.
Is the secure element's crypto used for Bitcoin processing?#
Although the ATECC608 (and the 508 used on older versions), do
implement standard SHA-256, HMAC(SHA-256) and AES, we use those
implementations only to secure the secrets that the chip holds.
The same is true of the secondary SE (Maxim DS28C36B) on the Mk4.
Bitcoin signatures, and all other Bitcoin-specific operations are
completed with the open-source software found
in our open-source code.
Ultimately the critical math is performed by the same
libsecp256k1 code
used in Bitcoin Core.
What kind of secure element is used?#
The ATECC608 is a fixed-function device for private key storage.
It is not a general purpose CPU like some other secure elements. As a result, neither
Coinkite nor the chip's manufacturer can change how it works without
revising the hardware of the chip itself. It is in effect a flash ROM
(read only memory) with about 10k bits of storage. All access and updates are
predefined by the hardware and its design.
The complete COLDCARD firmware can be seen here
and we have a detailed white paper
specifically about this secure element, and how we use it.
With the new mark (Mk4) of the COLDCARD, a second secure element (Maxim DS28C36B)
has been added so that if either vendor has a critical security flaw,
it will not affect the overall security of your seed words.
We combine the power of both secure elements as described in
this white paper about Mk4 secure elements
When does the PIN attempt counter reset?#
The PIN attempt counter resets to zero as soon as you enter the
correct PIN code. The COLDCARD will always brick after 13 failed
PIN attempts regardless of any other settings.
The number of failed PIN attempts can be reduced from 13 by
navigating to: Settings > Login Settings > Trick PINs > Add If Wrong.
For more details see the Trick PINs guide.
What happens when I can't remember my PIN?#
When you've failed 3 times or more, we warn you that you are in
danger of bricking the device. The message encourages you to
double-check the PIN entered, and even gives you a peek at what you
entered, before submitting it as an login attempt.
Please note the COLDCARD will brick itself after 13 failed
login attempts. There is no way to reset or recover the device.
Mk2 and earlier COLDCARDs will allow infinite attempts, but make
it slower and slower each time, until at one point, you have to
wait hours between each attempt.
Where does the entropy (randomness) come from?#
It's very important the entropy (randomness) used to pick your
master seed phrase is good quality. The COLDCARD primarily uses the hardware
TRNG (True Random Number Generator), inside the main chip. This is
a dedicated hardware subsystem that measures analog noise produced
by a special transistor.
The TRNG from the MCU would be sufficient, but we also maintain a
PRNG which is mixed (by XOR) into the TRNG output. That PRNG is
seeded once at boot up from the TRNG in each of SE1 and SE2. We
limit the of use the TRNG present in the secure elements because
the protocol involved is complex and slow.
The 256-bit number from the TRNG⊕PRNG is then "whitened" to remove
bias, by running it through SHA256. This means if your attacker was
somehow able to make the bits be 10% ones and 90% zeros (but still
random otherwise) it would not help them, because after SHA256 the
bit distribution will be 50/50 again.
During seed picking process, you have the option of "adding dice
rolls" to increase the entropy and/or mitigate any possible manipulation.
You can add as many rolls as you wish, and the entropy (about 2.5
bits per roll) will be added to the 256 bits of entropy already picked.
You may completely bypass the above seed picking method, and use
just dice rolls if desired. This process is documented in great depth
here on our docs
and includes a number of different ways to verify our SHA256 math for yourself.
We even sell a package of 100 tiny dice
so you can roll 256 bits of your own entropy in a single toss.
If you do choose to roll your own dice, it is critical that you do
it honestly and truly rely on how your dice fell. Do not press
buttons arbitrarily or repeat the same roll a bunch of times.
Humans are very bad at generating entropy!
Where do I learn all technical details?#
You can read our
secure element
white paper,
dual vendor secure element page,
our online docs. and ultimately
the COLDCARD source code.
Last update:
August 11, 2026
Back to top
Copyright © Coinkite Inc. All rights reserved.