Skip to content
Open main navigation
Close main navigation
How can we help?
There are no suggestions because the search field is empty.
Knowledge Base
Keys
Coldcard
How do I replace the keys to my vault?
You can replace multiple keys with one step by building a new vault
Creating a new vault is our recommended alternative to using our key replacement feature, especially if you need to rotate multiple keys. By following these instructions to create a new vault and manually sweeping your funds into it, you gain a cleaner, safer, and more flexible process.
Note: If you have an IRA vault, you may use this method. Ensure that you are building the new vault within the same IRA account. Once finished, please close the old IRA vault. You should only have one active vault per IRA account.
You may see a big red warning on the deposit address for your new IRA vault. The warning is intended to prevent an outside deposit from being sent directly to an IRA vault without going through the approved contribution or rollover process. You may proceed when you are using this workflow to move bitcoin between vaults in the same IRA account. Do not disregard the warning for bitcoin coming from a personal wallet, exchange, or any other source outside the IRA.
How to create a new vault and move your funds
Log in to your Unchained account.
Ensure you have two secure, uncompromised keys available to build the new vault. You may need to setup and add new keys to your account.
Navigate to the vault creation flow and set up your new vault.
Ensure you select the option to transfer your existing subscription to this new vault. This will activate your 30-day grace period.
Once your new vault is active, initiate a transaction sending all of the bitcoin from your old vault to your new vault.
When initiating the withdrawal on your old vault, you can choose “Internal transfer” and select the new vault.
If you have 2 Coldcard-generated keys and are affected by the July/August 2026 Coldcard vulnerability, be aware of the option to broadcast your transaction using Slipstream. This is unnecessary if you only have 1 Coldcard-generated key.
Once the transaction is confirmed, your funds are safely secured in the new vault. You can then close the old vault.
If you encounter any issues or have questions regarding your specific vault configuration, please contact our support team for guidance before proceeding.
Keys
Getting started
Device checks
Key replacements and recovery
Trezor
Ledger
Coldcard
BitBox
Jade
Vaults
Setting up a vault
Receiving a deposit
Making a withdrawal
Vault navigation
UTXO management
Connections
Making a connection
Sharing keys
Sharing vaults
Unchained IRA
Getting started
IRA types
IRA transfers
Employer plan rollovers
Contributions
Distributions
IRA trading
Taxes
Fortis Bank
Commercial Loans
Getting an Unchained commercial loan
Understanding commercial loans
Collateral management
Commercial loan servicing
CTP violations and liquidations
Trading desk
Onboarding
Buying bitcoin
Selling bitcoin
Account Management
Individual accounts
Business and trust accounts
Managing my account
Billing
Concierge Services
Donor-Advised Funds
Account Security
Protecting my Account
Dealing with Scams and Fraud
Data and Privacy
Legal and Compliance
Inheritance
Understanding inheritance
Unchained Inheritance Protocol
Personal vault beneficiaries
IRA beneficiaries
Caravan
Wallet configuration file
Understanding Caravan
For further support, contact us at: Phone: +1 844-486-2424 | Support email: hello@unchained.com
Copyright © 2026, Unchained