url:      https://x.com/korraflow/status/2083812755409191373
author:   Korra
handle:   @korraflow
posted:   2026-08-02T07:10:50.000Z (from the page's <time> element)
captured: 20260803T034807Z via the capture browser (authenticated,
          read-only. Element-only screenshot; no session chrome.
media:    0 attached image(s)
reply-to: Alex Thorn
@intangiblecoins
·
21h -- 'outrageous behavior by some in this world\n\na nearly 30 BTC coldcard victim had 17 BTC peeled and sent over \n@THORChain\n to ETH, then deposited into \n@Duelcomcasino\n \n\nboth the victim and a research emailed all known addresses for \n@Duelcomcasino\n and asked for freeze, provided al'

--- post text (verbatim) ---

Hi, Duel team here.

We cannot simply freeze a user's funds because a third party claims it is stolen. Anyone can claim anything about someone else's balance. For example, I could swap my BTC for your ETH, claim you robbed me, and get your funds frozen...

HOWEVER, I am happy to make a one time exception in this case, because I have sympathy for the Coldcard victims. If the victim is able to sign a message from an address of the "hack," sign an affidavit stating they were hacked, and show the clear trail of evidence leading to Duel, I will temporarily freeze the funds without a police or court order.

You have to understand the reason this policy exists, we require SOME sort of official confirmation that an actual theft occured (so confirmation from law enforcement of any kind usually), otherwise anyone can claim stuff about their own balance or a counterparty or a third party they don't even know and get accounts frozen. It would be extremely anti-privacy, anti-crypto, and anti-bitcoin to freeze a balance because someone in support chat asked us to. I am hoping the crypto crowd of all people will understand why we try to preserve sanctity of on-site balances.

But as noted, just this once, an exception is open. The alleged victim can send me the above details in DM and I'll get it done.

Terrible situation and I have huge sympathy for scam victims but again we have to protect our users and abide by the law, balances on Duel are extremely sacred and it takes a fairly high threshold for us to seize them (essentially we have to be legally obliged to).
