url:      https://x.com/BeccaAmilee/status/2084697449915088940
author:   BeccaAmilee
handle:   @BeccaAmilee
posted:   2026-08-04T17:46:18.000Z (from the page's <time> element)
captured: 20260814T003148Z via the capture browser (authenticated,
          read-only. Element-only screenshot; no session chrome.
media:    0 attached image(s)

--- post text (verbatim) ---

At 
@AnchorWatch
 we seem to be past most of the code-red-safe-harbor folks. I'm glad. It's still available to anyone, if you discover someone who still has funds to move: 10 minutes to safety into our Multi-institution Custody. Self-onboard. 

But now my DMs and inbox are SLAMMED from people who are safe, but reconsidering their existing setup. I will respond to you all! 

If you know you want to do Multi-institution Custody (MIC), you can self-onboard in 10 minutes by clicking "Create Account" on our site. 

If you want to have a chat, I will post my and my sales team's calendar booking links below. If you are in a different time zone and can't find a time that works for you, just let me know. I'm working morning until night, and will arrange a time with you outside of my calendar hours. 

Once you've chosen a vault type (if you want to hold keys or not), then either we will send you a new hardware wallet and schedule an onboarding (Flagship). Or, your Multi-institution vault will be already be set up, if that's what you chose, and we will send you a Yubikey, which will be used to verify your identity when creating transactions. You do NOT need a Yubikey to set up a vault or deposit funds to your MIC vault. You can add it once you've received it in the mail.

Custody is available to customers both inside and outside the USA. Insurance for individuals is only available to those in the USA, or starting next week a partner the UK will begin offering fully insured Multi-institution to their customers with AnchorWatch.
KYC CHALLENGES: some international customers especially have gotten roadblocked on KYC. Email chris@anchorwatch.com to help resolve. We're working to fix!

New pricing will be honored for all new customers. Those signing up now can use the promo code SAFEHARBOR for no fees until October 1st. During the SAFEHARBOR period we're also covering the costs of your Yubikey or Signing Device and waiving the set up fee. 

New pricing getting posted to the website today, but again, we'll take care of you if you signed up in the last couple days. Existing customers - we got you, we'll figure it out. 

If you would like to explore options through conversations, please use the calendar booking links below!
