url:      https://x.com/x_imp0stor/status/2085542831729279480
author:   imp0stor₿
handle:   @x_imp0stor
posted:   2026-08-07T01:45:33.000Z (from the page's <time> element)
captured: 20260807T131253Z via the capture browser (authenticated,
          read-only. Element-only screenshot; no session chrome.
media:    2 attached image(s)
media-1: https://pbs.twimg.com/tweet_video_thumb/HPFWJg0WIAAFXv0.jpg (480 x 400 pixels)
media-2: https://pbs.twimg.com/media/HO_ckLyXcAAirtD?format=jpg&name=medium (675 x 1200 pixels)
videos:   1 attached video(s), poster URL below;
          the video itself is not captured by this tool
video-1: poster https://pbs.twimg.com/tweet_video_thumb/HPFWJg0WIAAFXv0.jpg

--- post text (verbatim) ---

Update: I have made it home after a hell of a journey and a lot of self-reflection. I am still trying to put all the recent events into perspective and have a lot to figure out. I am not sure how the events will impact my life and how any of the damage to my brain will manifest, if at all. The life changes are going to be hard and take time.  

(Warning: I typed a lot. I am not sure if it is all relevant, but it is what came out. I hope you find some value in it.)

One thing I can say for certain, it will not make me release a seemingly intentionally buggy seed generation tool in any product I build, but that is an aside. I avoid even doing that level of risk without the perfection it deserves.

The hospital allows for very little, heavily interrupted sleep. I was supposed to work tonight, but I have opted to stay home and rest and spend time with family. Money is tight, but I will make it work, as some things are more important. 

I am really thankful for this community, all the prayers and the love shown to me while I fight my fight. I have seen likes and comments and interactions with several people I never expected to see. 

Just remember, even if we have our differences (whatever they may be) there are things that are more important and we need to not let things divide as much as we can. We need to thing pragmatically. There are great people out there doing there best to make the world a better place. There are trials and tribulations we face along the way, in many forms. Sometimes we face them together, sometimes we have to face them alone, but no one ever said it would be easy. 

I feel for all the people who are impacted by the recent events and have lost their life savings. I have real world experience with it and have literally been on your side of the events more times than I want to account. I want you to know, it is not the end of the world. Please take the time you need to get through this, because you can and you should. To take a phrase from American politics: "Build back better"  

I am trying to do that myself and it is not easy. I have mined and had as many as 100-150 BTC on more than one occasion, but today I only have what I have been able to chase back, very minimal. I lost almost all of my remaining coin on leverage back in ~2021 to a collateralized BTC loan that I did in all the wrong ways at exactly the wrong times, with no way to save it on the downside. This was on top of losing coin in MtGox, cryptsy, BlockFi, Celsius, and sending out .05 to tons of plebs and friends to orange pill them early, when BTC was in the $250 range. 

I am trying to do a lot, but that is where the stress and the stroke came in. I need to stop, collaborate and execute well. I have been dealing with battles on all fronts and that is losing the war. I am going to be honest that I need help to do some of it, as it is not a one man job, even though I try to think I can do it anyway. I will be trying my best to rescope my plans and hopefully collaborate with those who want to help me figure it out. 

I have also been seeking a job at several companies recently, but without the dedication and time I should be putting into it, since I have been fighting all fronts. I am trying to use this as a sounding board to keep myself accountable as I look for the right path forward. 

I am hoping to get some like minded people together that want to act on some of the things I have started to build and potentially bring some great things to market as a result, or at least take the work I have done and contribute it to existing projects that they would compliment. 

I have quietly been working on something that was akin to Buzz, by 
@Jack
. My stack was similar in spirit not implementation. It has many things that would be able to either integrate or extend various methodologies and implementations. I had been working on designs of a graph based set of knowledge layers, nostr integrations and public agent collaborations via nostr WoT, Lora rating and sharing, monetized public data for users that want to host and charge access for query results on structured data that agents can use and even rate, annotate. This is only surface level as they all have some level of dense documentation and/or code, which cannot be laid out properly in this way. 

I have built out much of a functioning nostr platform, many primitives, several adjacent nostr projects, some even being OS level. I have designed or "protyped" dozens of projects, but have not brought them to production ready. I have intentionally left many off the list as I am not sure I want to fully put the idea out there until I have more solid implementations. I also have a podcast studio I have built that I need to create content in and launch the thing, but I always seem to have a reason, that I justify, standing between me and the end results. I would ideally like to have a session with some talented and technical nostr enthusiasts to really feel out the existing things and designs I have in my private github. 

If I even laid it all out cleanly, I can say that it is an impressive backlog of things that no one person should even consider trying to tackle, let alone in parallel. 

I have a lot of compute, for an average person. I have seen something with 
@callebtc
 building a way to sell decentralized compute, but I also have a lot of things I need to use it for. Lots of VRAM, somewhere around 300-500GB across many cards, but not built out fully. I have TBs of DDR4 RAM that I am looking to put to good use for lots of things. I need to build and I am stuck doing a job way below my skill level and pay grade to just try to survive. I have to make the pivot and I am thinking I have to get a remote work job to balance things. 

I left my last job in 2018 on good terms after a buyout of the products I specialized in and a knowledge transfer to the new owners and wanted to take some time to try to build my own projects. In that time, my mom was diagnosed with cancer and eventually passed and my mission pivoted to that really hard time, neglecting much else. It put me in an untenable situation that I am still trying to crawl out of 2 years later, but I am determined to do it. My last position in enterprise software was the developer evangelist over 40+ projects in the common tech group of our software company. I do ideas, among other things. If I do take a job, want to join a company that I really believe in the products and mission of the entity and feel like I can contribute on a level that I have been known to do in my past roles. 

I have rambled on a lot here and I know there will be people out there that do not fully understand or empathize with the situations I have laid out, but I will tell you this much, I know a lot of what I could have done and should have done and cannot change it. I know I have good quality brain power to deploy for what I participate in. I also know that I work a certain type of way and some suggestions just do not work in my world the way they might sound when expressed. 

I am going to do my best to figure out a plan, I have to start knocking things out, one at a time and lowering my overall backlog in life. I am very much interested in any real help I can get, which is hard to ask for and difficult to explain and requires talented individuals willing to help me sort out the mess I have made of beautiful ideas. 

If you read this far, many thanks. I have a lot more I want to say and I want to type, but I would find myself writing a book that would take way to long to read in this form. 

I really appreciate all of you, even the ones that I shouldn't. I am still here, I am alive. I have things to be thankful for and I hope to use what time I have to create, build, network and enjoy. 

Even the act of typing this out and putting it out in the world is a little bit of stress and weight lifted off of me, I have done the first steps, I hope I can find like minded people to reach out and assist me in making my dreams a reality again.
