url:      https://x.com/clay_garrett/status/2083425375015579865
author:   Clay Garrett
handle:   @clay_garrett
posted:   2026-08-01T05:31:32.000Z (from the page's <time> element)
captured: 20260803T035643Z via the capture browser (authenticated,
          read-only. Element-only screenshot; no session chrome.
media:    0 attached image(s)
reply-to: Moms-In-Bitcoin
@MomsInBitcoin1
·
Aug 1 -- 'Ok... who is expressly knowledgeable on the \n@Bitkey\n \nThe pros and cons.  No fud or assumptions.  Simple good and bad. (Or preferences not necessarily bad)Multisig obviously a plus but no coin control, notes? multiple wallets?   Software and app etc.   \nIts so foreign to me to n'

--- post text (verbatim) ---

I'm knowledgeable. Full disclosure, I lead the team that builds Bitkey. Gonna share some thoughts to help you make a decision and aim to be totally honest and transparent here. Hope you're OK with a long post so I can just share my full thoughts. This isn't canned, this is me just sharing my thoughts live. 

What's great?

The 2-of-3 multi-sig setup is a superpower for a number of reasons. It helps protect against the type of things that happened in this incident. Our entropy is solid, but if it weren't on one of the keys, that's not alone enough to threaten your bitcoin. We generate entropy in 3 different environments (the phone, the hardware, and the server). This helps diversify, where a bug in one wouldn't be present in the others. 

On top of this, 2-of-3 gives you flexibility where you can spend funds without Bitkey being involved. Even if 
@blocks
 disappeared (we have the Emergency Exit Kit for that). Block can be involved when you lose a key and need to recover. 

You can also turn on a feature that lets you set a daily limit you'd like to spend on the go. With this on, our server will co-sign with your app key up to that limit daily, so you don't have to take your hardware if you'd like to spend while you travel or are out and about.

Our recovery system is unmatched. Lose your phone? Tap your wallet on your new phone and you're back in. Lose your Bitkey? Tap your new hardware, wait 7 days while we make sure nobody contests your recovery request, and you're in. Lose your phone and your Bitkey? If you've spent the 2 mins it takes to set up a recovery contact, they can help decrypt your app key from your cloud, without ever having access to it. 

The 2 of 3 also allow us to provide an inheritance feature that is extremely easy to set up. It requires that your beneficiary have a Bitkey, but we give you a discount when you set it up and within minutes, your loved ones are protected. 

We have a design without a seed phrase, which just means we take care of storing the seed for you in a redundant, resilient way. Because of this, onboarding is dead simple and takes less than 5 minutes and is easy enough for anyone of any age / experience level.

We're the only collaborative custody service that can't see any of your activity except one's we're involved in signing. This is because we invented Chaincode Delegation (
https://
bitkey.world/blog/chain-cod
e-delegation-improving-privacy-in-collaborative-multisig
…). 

We're fully FOSS. Our code is online and editable.

Where can we get better? 

We need more utility features and we've already planned many of them. We've got support for transaction notes on the way, which is our first step towards ultimately supporting UTXO labeling and coin control. We're talking about how we can use this to support features like account separation.

We don't yet support lightning. Do we want to? Yes. Is it hard to do native lightning for mobile self custody? Yes. But there are lots of really interesting newish options that some type of lightning support much more straightforward and we will talk to the community about the right shape/tradeoffs for this when we make it past some of the other stuff I mentioned. 

The lack of seed phrases is a tradeoff. We think it's the right one for most who self custody now and will in the future, but certainly not for all. If portability of your keys to other wallets is a crucial feature for you, Bitkey isn't right wallet. And that's OK. If portability of your funds is most important, then luckily we have Bitcoin transactions which allow you to move your funds from Bitkey to any other wallet. 

So many of the things that make Bitkey great are because of the seedless decision. It reduces phishing capability, takes the burden of securing cryptographic materials off of customers, and in our opinion, greatly reduces the stress of self custody. 

I'm not trying to do a sales pitch, so pardon if any of it sounds that way! There are other great products and services on the market as well. I do want people who have questions about our product to get the answers they're looking for. I'm really sorry you've gone through the roller coaster you've been on.
