Blog
Careers
Contact
RSS
Email Newsletter
Store
×
Home
Blog
Careers
Contact
RSS
Email Newsletter
Store
← Back to posts
Update on Customer Data Retention
Published Aug 7, 2026
Categories: ckcc
We want to inform our customers of a change to our data-handling practices in
connection with the security incident disclosed on July 30,
2026.
As many of you know, our standard practice has been to automatically blank
customer records after 120 days, retaining only email addresses and country of
residence. We have also offered customers the option to request accelerated
blanking at any time after delivery.
Due to legal obligations arising from the security incident, including the
preservation of records that may be relevant to ongoing and anticipated legal
proceedings, we have temporarily suspended our automated data-blanking process.
This means that customer records that would otherwise have been blanked under
our standard schedule will be retained until further notice.
However, if you would like us to apply our existing retention policies to
your data, we will exempt them from this protocol. Please confirm that you do
not want us to preserve your data by contacting
support@coinkite.com.
We understand that this is a departure from our published practices and that
our customers value the privacy protections we have committed to. We want to
be transparent about why this change has been made. We are required by law to
preserve records that may be relevant to legal proceedings. This obligation
applies regardless of our internal data-retention policies and overrides our
standard deletion schedule.
During this period, all retained customer data will be stored securely and
access will be restricted to authorized personnel. Retained data will not be
used for any purpose other than compliance with legal obligations. We will
resume our standard data-blanking practices as soon as we are legally permitted
to do so.
If you have questions about this change, please contact
support@coinkite.com.
@COLDCARDwallet
@SATSCARD
@TAPSIGNER
@theBLOCKCLOCK
@arcasafes
Video Tutorials
@Coinkite
Made with by Coinkite
View store
Products
Opendime
Speedplate
Blockclock
Support
Responsible Disclosure
Terms of Use
White Paper
Copyright © 2026 Coinkite Inc. All rights reserved.
support@coinkite.com