url:      https://x.com/zherbert/status/2085548862878466251
author:   Zach Herbert
handle:   @zherbert
posted:   2026-08-07T02:09:31.000Z (from the page's <time> element)
captured: 20260807T114302Z via the capture browser (authenticated,
          read-only. Element-only screenshot; no session chrome.
expanded: this post was served truncated; its show-more control was
          expanded before reading, so the text below is the whole post
media:    0 attached image(s)

--- post text (verbatim) ---

"Bitcoin wallet industry is so petty and dramatic."

This is a real quote from today and I've seen similar sentiment over the last week. It's wrong.

The Bitcoin wallet industry is not filled with infighting. Only one CEO of one company is responsible for all of the vitriol: NVK.

My company, 
@FoundationHQ
, is friendly, collaborative – and yes, competitive – with others in the wallet space. We interact with or have previously interacted with 
@Blockstream
, 
@BitBoxSwiss
, 
@Trezor
, 
@Bitkey
, 
@SeedSigner
 and others over the years. I have respect for them all.

I fiercely criticized Bitkey, for example, and have amended my critiques as they have addressed them. Bitkey now has privacy guarantees and a screen – a big win for the ecosystem.

I'll even occasionally interact here on X with 
@P3b7_
 of 
@Ledger
. While I don't agree with Ledger's approach most of the time, Charles respectfully engages in good faith. Ledger maintains one of the best security research teams in the industry and participates in responsible disclosures that have helped secure many companies.

There is no industry infighting. There is no toxic culture amongst wallet vendors. There is just NVK.

NVK had a unique style and strategy that was difficult to defend against. It wen't something like this:

(1) NVK aggressively attacks competitor or security researcher with wild defamatory claims and name calling. "Cloner" "Leach" "Commie" "Maoist" "Terrorist"

(2) Competitor tries to defend himself. "That's not true, we are not cloners, we used some of your open source code but made substantial contributions of our own"

(3) NVK continues to repeat claims across twitter, podcasts, live audiences, etc. Repeats the exact same defamatory statements and name calling dozens of times. More repetition makes it common knowledge.

(4) Competitor points out NVK's poor character or criticizes Coinkite's products or business practices – and is immediately swarmed by others publicly and privately to "keep things civil" "don't cause drama" "stop the infighting" "take the moral high ground"

(5) NVK continues relentlessly but is not called out by the same people for his bad behavior – they only call out anyone who pushes back against NVK. They do not dare call out NVK.

This is a complex strategy that worked for several years. Numerous folks in the wallet industry were targeted, not just Foundation/me. 

NVK is relentless and is consumed by targeting others. At one point he had Twitter alerts set up for any mention of "Foundation" or "Passport" and would swarm our mentions with bot accounts. And there's much more.

Most people don't know, for example, that NVK maintains dozens of domain names that point Foundation and Seedsigner to various poor reputation Bitcoin projects like Knots.

I just tried a few domain names in my browser for SeedSigner. 
http://
seedsigner.org currently forwards to Bitcoin Knots website. NVK registers and controls these domain names.

Most people also don't know, for example, that NVK sneaks around and gossips to investors and conference organizers – attempting to get funding commits pulled, conference sponsorships canceled, and even sometimes conference attendance canceled – from companies or projects that are on his hit list.

My experience aside, it's no secret that 
@OpenSats
 never gave SeedSigner a grant. The reason is obvious.

But now all that is over. For 7 days now the wallet industry has been free of vitriol.

This has been a horrible week for Bitcoin and Bitcoiners. I look forward to collaborating with our fellow industry peers to ensure something like it never happens again.

Thank you.
