url:      https://njump.me/note1jyk0lxl27cf8c3c6ghtl57u8x0mmhpmjv7acvk76zmmahk0w9kdqrne45j
event id: 912cff9beaf6127c471a45d7fa7b8733f7bb877267bb865bda16f7dbd9ee2d9a
author:   npub168u2cl8m4s9htdym5yref7tpkghw96lngc0d8cxqyc400f02sdjs3q68qx
posted:   2026-08-06T02:41:41Z (created_at 1785984101)
captured: 20260806T052545Z via nak version v0.20.2; nak req -i from wss://relay.damus.io.
          nostr events are self-authenticating signed artefacts;
          nak verified the signature on receipt.

--- note text (verbatim) ---

I concur with this from anon X user... I'm not fucking leaving! I've had shit stolen in the past and I'm sure evil mother Fuckers will steal in the future. No getting around evil and incompetence. Be it crypto, hard assets, land, real estate and fucking shit fiat. 

Hope assholes that do it rot in fucking hell.

Also don't forget the God damn fucking government steals from us every fucking day. Every single day of your life. 


Hello fellow Bitcoiners,

It’s been nearly one week since my wallet was drained. 

I lost my entire bitcoin stack, presumably the most in the entire attack - an amount I’m more than embarrassed and ashamed to even admit publicly. This was not only my life savings but my time, energy, hardcore conviction and identity after 13 years in this space. 

I am posting pseudonymously as I’ve always preferred to stay out of the spotlight - and privacy (inspired by Satoshi) is something I value. I debated whether or not I should say anything at all, but after much deliberation I decided it may be beneficial for  other victims who are struggling.

While this incident certainly forced upon me the darkest days of my life so far - I have now accepted it and will slowly put together my life again. I came from nothing and did everything right (except rolling the damn dice apparently 😅). I stayed away from trading, exchanges, shitcoins, ICOs, NFTs, false prophets, etc and quietly and consistently built up over the years through all the ups and downs - never spending frivolously on material goods but instead using bitcoin as my sense of freedom and security - with the hopes to pass it on to my future children. 

Even though that peace, freedom and security is now gone - I am beyond grateful for the journey and life that bitcoin enabled me to have. 

To all the other victims, as cliche as it is to say “it’s only money” - true wealth, as I’ve learned over and over again is in health, family, and friendships. I’d be lying if I told you I’m not afraid of the uncertainty ahead, but I know by taking one step at a time it will be possible to rebuild. Trust me if I can come to these realizations, you can too! The hardest challenges in life make us stronger and turn us into the best versions of ourselves - don’t give in to the hopelessness. By being in this community you are apart of something special that the majority of the world still hasn’t realized yet. It’s still early! 

Thanks to all the wonderful people in the community I’ve been DMing over the past week - your kind words of support mean the world to me and helped me start to believe in myself again. 

To the hacker: you still can do the right thing here and come clean - you have prompted a serious wake-up call that has brought the community together which will bring more resilience for the future. Doing the noble thing now will prevent a lifelong hunt.

To all the amazing bitcoiners who have jumped to action from the very beginning to support each other and mitigate further damage - it’s been a beautiful thing to watch. 

To the @blocks team and especially @intangiblecoins, your efforts are inspiring and provide me with hope. Believe me when I say that IF I ever get my coins back you will all be taken care of very well, along with massive donations to the open source community. 

For now I will withhold any judgement towards @nvk and the @Coinkite team - while I’m still processing this loss and dealing with the gravity of building my life up from the ruins - I have 0 anger or resentment. Bitcoin security is a tough job, mistakes are made, and lessons are learned by all. I made mistakes by trusting and not verifying as well as not having a more robust security solution so the responsibility must be shared, hindsight is 20/20 and even though it’s tough: I’m okay admitting that. Bitcoin humbles all.

Having said all that… I’M NOT FUCKING LEAVING!!! I will start building a new stack from the ground up like all the other plebs as my conviction in Bitcoin is even stronger today then when I got my first coins in 2013. 

This was never about the money - it was always about the revolution, and that can’t be stopped. We will win.

Let’s keep our heads high.
The march continues.
It’s time to rebuild. 

PS: Thanks for everything Satoshi ❤️
 



--- replies (1) ---

[2026-08-06T04:24:22Z] npub1t04cvx3d0a3…: Damn if that's legit, and it sounds legit to me, then that is the most badass shit I've heard all day.
